Hi guys, and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to be adding a menu bar
to our application,
so that we can create new files using it.
Let's get started!
First of all, we are going to add a couple of things here
to our root.
A title, which we don't need for a menu,
but nonetheless, it looks good.
And then we're going to add an option,
which is a slightly confusing part of TkInter,
but essentially through these options,
you can change the behaviour of certain elements
and certain things in different operating systems.
Really, you have to read the documentation
for each option in order to understand what they do,
but when you add an option, then TkInter
will communicate that to TK and TCL,
and the UI will behave differently.
In this case, we're going to add a tearOff of False.
And what that means is, in some operating systems,
the menus we'll be adding can be torn off
from the interface and placed elsewhere in your screen.
And we want to prevent that, so the menus that we add
to our application, you won't be able to like
separate from the application window.
That's what this option means.
Now underneath main here, we're going to add a menu bar.
And that is just a tk.Menu.
It's not a ttk menu,
because it's not really a themable widget,
it's just a menu bar.
And again, this menu bar will be different
in each operating system, it will look different.
For example, in Mac, it will show up here
on the top of the screen.
In Windows, it'll show up as like File, and so on,
and in Linux, it'll differ depending on the distribution.
Then we're going to say root.config(menu = menubar).
And let's remove those spaces there.
And what this means is we have created a menu bar,
which is, you know, PyCharm, File, Edit, View,
all of these things are one menu bar.
Now we have to add a particular cascade,
or a particular drop-down of elements.
So we're going to add one called File.
So we'll say file_menu is another tk.menu,
but now the parent is the menubar,
and we'll say menubar.add_cascade
and we'll pass in the file_menu,
and we'll pass in a label called "File."
And what that does is, it creates a file element
inside of the menu, and tells the menubar,
which is our main menu, to add it as a drop-down
that you can click.
Then, in the file_menu, we're going to add a command,
not a cascade, and the command
is gonna have a label of "New",
and the command is going to be create_file.
Make sure to not call the create_file function there,
just like we had with buttons earlier on,
this command is just a callable function.
Oh, by the way, we do have to specify that this
is a menu item that we want to add to the menu bar,
and not an element that we want to add
to an already existing cascade inside an item.
Just make sure to pass in the named argument there.
Running the app now gives you the same thing
that we had before, but now you can see at the top,
we've got a File menu that we didn't have before,
and then here we have New.
Whenever we click New, we run the create_file function,
which again creates a text area,
makes sure that it fills everything inside the notebook,
adds it to the notebook itself, which creates the new tab,
and then selects it, which places focus
on the newly created element.
Again, if we type here, "Hello world,"
and then we hit a new one,
this one is still here in the middle,
this one is now the end, and it's the one that's selected.
All right, this is how you create menus in TkInter.
First of all, you create a menu bar,
which is the top level that contains
all of the different menu cascades,
and then you create different cascades,
one for each group of actions.
That's everything for this video.
Thank you for joining me.
I'll see you in the next one!